# Q1 

<!-- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6208864/ -->

## Anatomy of the Cerebellum Circuits

Cerebellum has several layers, as in the Figure 1 attached:

First, starting from the deep, granule layer:
The granule cell bodies are in this layer, and they project to molecular layer and produce parallel fibers there.
Inferior olive has projections end at cerebellar nuclear cell here.
We also have mossy fibers connect to granule cells.
The cerebellar nuclei cells project to brainstem and thalamus for motor outputs, also some neurons there project to inf olive.

Second, cerebellum cortex layer.
Here, we have purkingje cell bodies, and their projection from the molecular layer parallel fibers to cell body, then to deep cerebellar nucles.

Third, molecular layer.
In the molecular layer, the purkingje cell dentritic tree form synapse with the parallel fibers.
The climbing fiber from inf olive climb on purkingje cells towards the parallel fiber.
There are also basket cells in the molecular layer.

## How Spikes Generated by the Circuits and Difference Between Complex Spikes and Simple Spikes

Complex spikes and simple spikes are spikes at purkinje cells.
These complex spikes are low frequency, has a boarder peak comparing to Simple spikes, and thought to contain information about prediction.
On the other hand, simple spikes are high frequency, narrow, and thought to contain relatively less information about the prediction.

Besides the shape of the spike, the complex and simple spikes are from different sources.
Looking back on the anatomy, the climbing fibers to purkinje cells is a one to many relationship.
When climbing fiber fires, it produce a depolarization to the purkinje cell, so that a lot of na comes in, and opens up ca channels, and result in a boarder ca spike of the purkingje cell denritic tree.
So, the complex spikes are mostly dependent on the low firing climbing fibers.
On the other hand, the simple spikes come from the mossy fiber inputs and intrinsic activities.

The complex spikes and simple spikes have different functions.
It's thought that the complex spikes contain the information of the error singal.
The inf olive and other circuits perform this kind of error computation, take the difference between motor signal excuated by The brain to the spinal cord, vs the signal from the spinal cord feedback.
If there is a mismatch, in other words, unexpected errors, the inf olive will fire and results in climbing fiber depolorization and complex spikes in purkinje cells.

Another learning pathway is the LTD at parallel fiber to purkinje cell connaction.
When the parallel fiber and climbing fiber activated at the same time, LTD happens.
It is though to be a correcting adjustment, from error signal from complex spikes, and the later simple spikes are althered to correct the behavior/ to learn the behavior.

<!-- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2887989/ -->

In conclusion,
the climbing fiber complex spikes contains Instructivce signal, where the mossy fiber simple spikes contains infomation about other infomation such as integrated sensory inputs.
Both are required during motor learning.

## Meanings of Complex and Simple Spikes in Behavior

The meaning of the complex spikes and simple spikes are best explained in a association learning context.

For example, in a simple tone paired eye blink conditioning motor learning, the cs is the tone and the us is the air puff to the eye.
The response is the blink.

In this case, the sound cue infomation goes to some brain nuclei and finally integrated in the mossy fiber inputs, to granule cells, golgi cells, and to parallel fiber.
This will produce the simple spikes in the purkinje cells.

The air puff CS, will goes to some brain nuclei such as the eye blink reflex center.
Besides this, it will also go to inf olive, and the inf olive project to climbing fiber and produce complex spikes in purkinje cells.

Before the learning, the CS and US are unpaired.
The inf olive and hearing nuclei activate the cerebellum nuclei (CN), and the purkinje cell activated by inf olive inhibit the CN.
Because now the mossy fiber input and inf olive inputs are unpaired at purkinje cells, the output blink is sololy relfex from the us.
As the CN produce a motor command spike just as the US time, the animal is not able to predice the coming us from the tone.
Also, because the CN is not predicting correctly, the prediction signal is inhibiting the inf olive at wrong time, and inf olive keeps sending error/instructive signal to purkinje cells.

During learning, the cerebellum use the instructive signal from complex spikes from climbing fiber of inf olive, and modify the simple spikes from mossy fiber input from the CS, using basket cells.
As those synapse are updated, the purkinje cell activate CN more and more preciese temporally, now the CN send kind of correct prediction signal to inf olive.
If the prediction is correct, the inhibitory input and the US excititory input are balanced out, meaning no error/instructive signal will be sending to purkinje cell via climbing fiber to make updates.
When the prediction misses, there will be this error signal for update.

After the learning, the CS and us are paired.
Now, the inf olive will fire at CS.
The CN will send motor command to close the eye at CS, to avoid the US.

# Q2

## Single unit recording

Using single unit recording, we will have the precies knowledge about the neuron electrophysiology properties.
With an electrode, we measure the exact voltage change vs time.
During recording, we can also inject current and test voltage responses, we can measure capacitance and resistance on different conditions, and we can alter the solutions by changing ion concentrations.
More importantly, we are able to focus on different part of neurons, or specific channels if we like.
In this way, we have very good infomation about how ap is propergation, and how molecules affect the physiology properties of the neuron.

In conclusion, in single neuron recording, a spikes is a spikes, and we see almost everything directly and precisely.
If doing single neuron activities in tissue slice and multiple cells in circuits, we can know precisely how the infomation is computed.
For exmaple, in hippocampus ca1 ca3 and dg circuits, we can record activites in each area, and see how changes in one node affact the down streams.

But usually, a precise single unit recording involves a lot of fine adjustment.
We dont have a lot of data from many cells, nor can we trace the cell through days of experiments.

## LFP Recording

LFP recording records the local field potentials.
Instead of focusing on single neuron, we look at the neuron populations.
We put the electrode near the cluster of neurons of interest, rather than at the specific neuron.
In this way, we are actually recording many neurons at the same time.
Although by doing post analysis, we can kind of projecting the features of different neurons in such a way that allow us to cluster and split the data into units, we are not sure how this unit resembles the real neuron.
In other words, one unit could be a single neuron, it could also be several very similar neurons, or it could be a sepcific type of spikes from a single neuron.

In this way, the strength of LFP recording is not recording many neurons at the same time and recover the single neuron data.
Instead, using the LFP recording, we usually use the low pass filter to remove the high frequncy spikes.
After this step, we have the synchronized activities of the neuron population of interest, namely the slow fluctuations, comes from the sustained currents.

In LFP, we can look at the phases, when looking at single unit recording spikes at the same time.
For example, on phase firings and off phase firings may code things differently, as in place cells.
We will know the population level information such as modulation about the circuits.

LFP is also a tool to determine the attention and wakefulness.
For example, from the LFP rythme, we can determine the slow wave sleep, rem sleep, theta rythme, etc.

## Calcium Imaging

Calcium imaging is a good way to see neuron activities as it can record thousands of neurons at the same time, and keep tracking the same neurons over time.

Usually, the neurons used in ca imaging are geneticly engineered to express gfp flurophore, so that they bind to the ca ions and signal the ca spikes.
Ca spikes is a good representations of the actual action potental on a slower time scale, and this is one drawback of the ca imaging.

With the ca imaging, we can analysis the data of many neurons and check their corelations of each other.
In this way, we determine their functional connectivities instead of physical connectivities.
For example, we can see neuron 1 always fire at the same times at neuron 2, but due to the slow frame rate of the ca imaging, we cannot say for sure that neuron 1 and 2 are physically connected, but they are functionally connected.

In some cases, we can zoom in and see directly how neurons are connected.
We can see the ap through the axons, and goes to another connected neuron.

Other than that, because we have the spatial informations of the neurons, we can also see how neurons organize in circuits.
For exmaple, we see in v1 cortex, the neurons are in such an arrangement that nearby neurons responde to similar angle of visual input.

# Q3

## Flexor Extensor Reflex
<!-- https://nba.uth.tmc.edu/neuroscience/m/s3/chapter02.html -->

Flexor extensor reflex is combining the flexor reflex on one side of the body to retract foot when hitting something painful, with the cross extensor reflex to keep the balance and not fall down.

In the flexor reflex, the pain receptor at foot, let say left foot, goes to the dorsol root ganglion at left side of spinal cord.
then to the motor neurons in ventral horn, which in turn signal teh muscles to get left foot move away from the hazard stimuli.

In the extensor reflex, the sensory neuron from left dorsal root ganglion also project to the motor neurons at right ventral horn, by crossing the midline of the spinal cord.
These motor neurons signal the muscles in the right leg to maintain balance.

## Descending Commands

The brain descending command can modulate the strength of the reflex, mainly by adjusting the reflex theshold.
The descending command is from the brain stem, cerebellum, basal ganglia and cerebral cortex, through the descending motor tract including the lateral pathways and medial pathways.
Specifically, the lateral pathway has lateral corticospinal tract and rubrospinal tract, and they controls the arm/leg muscles.
Medial pathway has vestibulospinal tract, reticulospinal tract, tectospinal tract, and anterior corticospinal tract.
They control axial muscles and involved in maintaining balance.

The descending command can upregulate the reflex threshold.
For example, regarding the flexor reflex, if I need to hold the hot dish and move it to table, the neurons in lateral reticular neucleus and brainstem send monoaminergic modulation to the spinal cord reflex circuits.
The precies location of the descending modulation command is not very well known, but we know the brain stem region has this descending modulationcommand.
Some studies suggest that the region periaqueductal gray also participate in this modulation because it is a center for acute pain sensation.
By modulation of the pain sensation, the brain will also be able to change the theshold for reflex.

As a result, the gain and the threshold of the reflex is decreased, and I can force himself to hold the hot dish for longer.
Another example regarding the flexor extensor reflex, if my left foot recieve the harzard stimuli, but my right foot is in such a position that I cannot put my mess centor on right foot to keep balance.
Now, I can force my left foot to stay with the harzard stimuli for a little bit longer, to allow some time for right foot to adjust to a stable location to keep balance and safe.

The descending command can also down regulate the theshold of the reflex.
For example, in an opposite situation, I want to test if somethings is very hot or kind of hot.
In this case, I know or suspect that there will be a hazardous stimuli, and I hope to withdraw my hand as soon as possible once I touch it.
Now, besides the theshold modulation we just discussed, there are motor preparetory activities as well.
I will plan my withdrawal action ahead, and once I touch the object, even if its not that hot, I will plan to retract my hand anyway.
So, motor preparetory activities, modulation of the reflex/pain threshold together triggers this withdrawal behavior.

# Q4

## Bird Song vs Human Languages

The bird song is believed to be one of the closet analogy to human language found in natrue.
They share many similirities, while, also different in many ways.

First, bird song and human languages require some common brain regions (analogy), and those brain regions require some common genes for development.
Foxp2 gene is responsible for protein forkhead box p2.
This protein is a transcription factor for forkhead domains, in other words, foxp2 is responsible for regulating hundreds of genes in this domain, thus foxp2 is very important in brain development.
This includes the neural growth, neural wiring, and synaptic plasticity, and thus learning and memory.
Studies have shown that mutation or deletion of the foxp2 gene can result in abnormal brain development and molecular basis of speech learning, thus the disability of speech.
In birds, the knock out of the foxp2 gene cause abnormal vocal area development, area x.

Second, the learning process of bird song and human language shares some similirities.
The vocal learning, especially bird song learning, is a type of trial and error learning during the critical period.
This critical period is seen in both human and birds.
During this time, human and birds use sensory feedbacks (hearing) and teacher signal (hearing, speech of the teacher), to try mimicing the teacher's sound by vocal muscles, and adjust the vocal muscles for any difference from the feedback and teacher's signal.
Through this trial and error learning, the brain adjust the connection strength of the synapse of the circuits involved, and produce the song or speech.
Because of some molecular gradients or mechanisms, the synapses are easier to be adjust during this critical period window.
If the song or speech is not learned during this time, it will be much harder to learn afterwards.

Languages learning is a super set of this trial and error learning.
Besides just mimicing the words, we have complex gramma, word meaning, sentence structure, etc.
That is, besides convey the idea of the states like bird songs, we also convey ideas, thoughts, and we learn the language through a much complex trial and error learning.
In my opinion, the language is complex but still in the form of trial and error learning, because when we first know some words, we will try to pack it into simple sentences to express the ideas, and parents teach us what is the correct way of saying that.
By practice and adjust for difference between teacher instruction and practice speech, we move towards better speech.
Slowly, we learn more words, we learn the apporate way of expressing ideas (gramma), and we learn how to express ideas better (writing, sentence structure, diction, idea flow).
This all happends in the brain, either by recalling some memory, or by some kind of 'intuation of the language', but both are infomation stored in synapse.
Thus, I believe the language learning is just a complex form of bird song learning.

As the language is some kind of a super set of bird song, it makes sense that human languages contain some components that bird song does not have.
Human language processing involves complex circuits.
First, the speaking of language is a motor acitivity.
The infomation relay center thalamus recieve sensory and basal ganglia input, and send to prefrontal cortex for cognition, and motor cortex for excution.
More specificly, the important broca area, generate language by control the motor function of speech and language comprehension.
In brief, the circuit is: from V1 (for written languages), A1 (for spoken languages), and other sensory inputs (touch, for sign languages; proprioperception, for flag language), the infomation integrated in thalamus, and project to broca area and then to motor area for speech.
The song bird has similar circuits, with broca region analogy HVC.

Compare the bird song to human language as a whole, the bird song lacks comphrension.
In other words, the bird song does not include as much infomation as in our language.
The bird song is believe to represent the state of the bird, hollistic, rather than containing logic infomation to communicate.
Also, human language has multiple forms of representation, like letters, speech, touch.
The human language also containing some elements that unique to human language, such as grammer, diction.

Besides the song and language itself and the learning process, the corresponding neural activity is also different.
The bird learn the song from tutuor, usually his father.
Here, the tutor song is heard by coclear and transmitt to some processing nucleus.
Then, in primary A1, the information is projected to NIF, then to hvc, the broca area analogy.
The HVC project to basal ganlia circuits for rehearsal and learning, and song is produced by HVC via some motor nuclus.
The motor signal transmits from HVC to RA and then to song output.
Thus, the inhibitory interneuron firing patterns are strongly correlated with the bird song.
Because recording the motor neuron activity directly, this HVC interneuron LFP activity kind of predict the motor neuron activity.
This shows with a simple circuits like birds brain, each syllable is represented by specific neuron activity.
With the specific activity, the down stream motor neurons fire and control the vocal muscles to make the specific syllable in the song.

In human, to my knonledge and my searching results, there is no such direct relationship between neural activity in a region and language.
This does not mean there is no relationship between the neuron firings with the speech, acutally it is shown possible to translate from brain activities directly into speech, but it may be that the cognition of speech/language is just too complex to decode in single brain region.
Because there are more pathways and circuits involved in human language, the neural activities are distributedly processed, rather than as a single pipeline stucture in birds.

Besides the neural circuits design difference of birds and human, the human language is natually different from bird song.
The learning of the bird song is just mimicing, while human language learning involves sentence meaning learning.
In this way, we would expect some higher level cortex neural acitivties that correlate with the meaning of the speech, and experiments prove it.

In conlusion, the birds song and human language differ in several ways:

Anatomy circuits difference: bird have a simple circuits like a pipeline with few graphic structure, while human language circuits involves more brain regions (processing nodes) so the circuits is graphical.

Component differnce: bird song does not have complex meanings.
Some studies showed that bird song represent the current state of the bird, but normally we recongize the bird song as the product of mimic learning from his father.
On the other hand, human languages contains much more conponents, so the mimic learning of speech just a sub set of the human language.
This explains why human languages require more brain regions and more complex circuits.

Activity difference: each syllable in bird song has correlated neural activity in the pipeline, but humam languages will activate several brain region at the same time, without simple correlation (might due to we cannot measure specifc human brain region with electrode directly).

# Q5

## Affected brain region of PD

In PD, several brain region is affected.
Notice the basal ganglia region is one of the most affected brain regions, which is responsible for fine control of the motor command by activating/inhibiting modulation of the motor circuits.

<!-- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627319302119 -->

In a normal healthy (no PD) condition, the substantia nigra signals the striatum and activate direct pathway while inhibit the indirect pathway (if this count as prosthetic!).
In turn, the globus pallidus is then inhibited.
Because the globus pallidus has inhibitory connections to thalamus and cortex, if the globus pallidus is inhibited, the total effect is promoting the movements.
In conclusion, the whole system provides an action selection process.
That is, the wanted action is encouraged, and the unwanted action is suppressed.

In a PD patient, becaues the degeneration of the substantia nigra dopamine neurons, the total effect is a inhibition on thalamus and cortex, Resulting in suppression the movement.
The brain loss the dopamine signals to fine control the motor activity, and lost motivation to move.

## Prosthetic for PD

In PD, the motor cortex does not generate enough spikes as seen in normal healthy condition.
So, standard prosthetics that rely on decoding the motor cortex will not work well.

A direct way would be mimicing the dopamine's effect by stimulating the direct pathway and inhibiting the indirect pathway by electrodes, or optogenetics, if possible.
This is similar as giving the l-dopa to the patients, where the l-dopa is turned into dopamine once pass the blood brain barrier and, to some extend, the motor function is restored.
In this way, the patient uses his/her own body as the prosthetic arm.

A another way would be trying to decode the action intention while use the standard robotic prothetic arms.
Studies have shown that the premotor cortex and parietal cortex which are encoding the movement intention, are lessly affacted.
Some other studies showed that the premotor cortex are overly activated than normal.
From a sufficient infomation perspective, decoding from an information rich source with noise is always better than decoding from source that does not contain enough information.
From a neural science perspective, the motor cortex encodes relativaly direct movement commands while the premotor areas contains more of the prepatory activites, and intention.
In this way, even though the premotor cortex is kind of overly activated in PD patients, we could use this movement intention to decode actions, and construct the prothetics.
Some filters might be needed to remove the overly activated part of the premotor cortex signals.
Here, it is like we use a jump wire to short cut the basal ganglia action selective process.
Instead of rely on the basla ganglia to do the action selection, we have to implant something else to select the wanted action and suppress the unwanted action.
As the action selection model discussed in class, the unwanted action is a guassian distribution around the actual wanted action.
If so, or if the unwanted action has some other forms of parameterized distribution that is not gaussion, we can easily extract the actual wanted action from the premotor cortex decoding.
In the worst seniro, when the unwanted action could not be described by a parameterized distribution, we could implant some optimal control algorthm, or a simple PID controler, which rely on sensory feedbacks to adjust the actual motor outputs.
For example, the patients decoded motor output is fluctuating, such as reaching out arm but with tremer, optimal control algorithm can smoothen the motor command while taking the history trajectory into account.
In other words, it outputs to a smoothed reaching out behavior.
As described above, we can achieve a potential prosthetics by decoding at premotor areas and add some artificial action selection module.

Side notes:
In my perspective, the overly activated part of premotor cortex activity might due to brain adjustment for a not responding motor cortex.
If so, the premotor cortex actually contain stronger signal for movement intention, and provide better decoding potentially.
If that is the case, the add on action selection module will be much easier.